We want to add a slicer,
let's do that.
So we talked about interactivity and at the moment, we can click into our visualizations
but I want to have more and to get more, I will simply add a slicer and instead of talking about the
slicer, let's simply create one.
Now you can find the slicer visualization in the visualizations column right here.
If you click that, you'll find a slicer and you can position it right here,
whoops, and right there,
so I would like to have it like this,
you can also position it vertically or as you prefer but I like that horizontal orientation in that case.
So now we have that slicer
and the interesting thing is that in the fields area right here, you can see that we only have one data
field that we should drag right here.
Now why don't we just use the years? Let's do that and open the FACT-Population table,
go to year and drag the year right there.
Now we cannot see a lot in that slicer at the moment,
so we have to go to the formatting options quickly, right here,
go to general and change the orientation, right there.
So we change it from vertical to horizontal.
Now we still cannot see a lot right,
let's maybe increase the size a little bit.
Now we can see what we have right there,
let me just click onto that visualization, drag that down and onto that one,
also drag that down
and put that to the top.
Now you can see what the slicer does, right?
We now have an overview or a list actually of all the years we have data for in our dataset
but what does this mean for us?
So we can scroll through that right here and we could for instance select 2017, like this
and now it gets interesting right, because now we are able to select the population data for a specific
year
and additionally the other visualizations react on what we did right here.
We know that this is happening because of the interaction settings
but nevertheless, this is really awesome, right?
So what if I want to select 2018, then it selects 2018,
this is nice
and we can now click through all of the years just as we prefer.
However there are two more options that we should take a look at regarding that slicer. The first thing
is if we go to the formatting area right here and to selection controls, the select all option, this
is off at the moment.
If we turn that on like this,
nothing changed, right?
Not true.
If we go to the beginning of that list by clicking on the arrow right here and maybe increasing the size
again,
then we can find that select all button.
Now if we click that, we selected all of the data that we have, if we click it again, nothing changed, again,
no, nothing changes.
Now what's the difference?
Well in that case, we selected all of the information and if we click onto one of the years like this,
this year is not any more displayed in that sum of the data we have right here,
so we now excluded those five years. The other way around
if we click select all again, now we selected nothing,
so this means at the moment we have all the data here in our visualization
and if I select one year, we only see that single year and if I click right here,
we only see this year, that year.
So that's the difference that we have right now
when we press onto that select all button. The second option is that single selection option, let's see
what that is,
so we turn it off right now
and now we selected 1966.
So if I now select 1967,
now we can select multiple years in that slicer, so we now selected those five years.
If I press select all again, we can now also unselect various years, just the way we had it before.
There wasn't a difference, right?
If I turn it on again, the same selection and now press right here,
this is the same behavior
but if I now go back to the select all button, like this, now select one year,
we have the single selection back again
and if I turn that off, then we can select multiple years.
So that's the difference,
it mainly has an impact in this kind of visualization,
so if we selected none of the years and then we can decide how we can select the years.
The last thing that we might want to change is that we might want to get rid of that year right
here because it's a redundant information actually. To do this,
we simply go to the format area, go to header and turn it off
and now we have more space for our years.
Let's maybe format that, like that, perfect and now we can select everything again if we want to
or like this maybe, nice.
So now we have that slicer and we know how this works and we see that it's really a great addition to
our current visualizations.
Now let's create some more visualization with the slicers and see what we can do with that
and we will do that in the next video.